README.md, before:

# C-Shell

A Cardano wallet built for developers and power users.

# Installation

## From Source

You'll need to have the following components already available in your system.

- [Rust toolchain](https://www.rust-lang.org/learn/get-started)

The following instructions show how to build and install _CShell_ from source code.

Use `git` to clone CShell source-code from our Github repository:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/txpipe/cshell.git
```

Use `cargo` to compile and install the generated binary for your user profile:

```sh
cargo install --all-features --path .
```

Once you completed the above steps, you should be able to call CShell directly from the command line:

```sh
cshell --help
```

## Binary Releases 

(Coming soon)

_CShell_ can be run as a standalone executable. The [Github
release](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/) page includes the
binaries for different OS and architectures. It's a self-contained, single-file
binary that can be downloaded directly.

For simplicity, we also provide diferent installers for supported platform to
automate the installation process. Regardless of the installer, the outcome
should be the same, choose the one that fits your needs.

### Install via shell script

You can run the following command line script to install CShell on supported systems (Mac / Linux)

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -LsSf https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-installer.sh | sh
```

### Install via powershell script

You can use Powershell to install CShell on Windows systems.

```sh
powershell -c "irm https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-installer.ps1 | iex"
```

### Install via Homebrew

You can use Homebrew to install the latest version of CShell in supported
systems (Mac / Linux)

```sh
brew install txpipe/tap/cshell
```

## Download Binaries

|  File  | Platform |
|--------|----------|
| [cshell-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.xz](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.xz) | Apple Silicon macOS |
| [cshell-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.xz](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.xz) | Intel macOS |
| [cshell-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip) | x64 Windows |
| [cshell-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) | x64 Linux |
| [cshell-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) | ARM64 Linux |


# Usage

To run CShell you need, at least, 1 provider and 1 wallet.

To add a wallet, you can do the following:


```sh
cargo run -- wallet create
```

This will prompt you for a a name and a password. Keep in mind that losing the
password means loosing the private key, because it is encrypted.

To add a provider, you can do something similar:

```sh
cargo run -- provider create
```

This will prompt you for a name, a kind (only UTxORPC supported), whether it is for mainnet or testnet, a URL and the possibility to add headers.

> If you have a [Demeter](https://demeter.run) port you would have to set the URL as `https://{host}` and on put `dmtr-api-key:YOUR_API_KEY` on the headers.

# Examples

In the `examples` folder you can find scripts demonstrating advanced capabilities.

## Batch transactions

This example shows how to send transactions to multiple recipients in a batch.

**Location:** `examples/batch-transactions/`

**Usage:**
```sh
./transfer.sh <sender_wallet> <receiver_wallets_list> <lovelace_amount>
```

**Arguments:**
- `sender_wallet`: Name of the wallet sending the funds (e.g., `alice`)
- `receiver_wallets_list`: Comma-separated list of recipient wallet names (e.g., `bob,charlie,mark`)
- `lovelace_amount`: Amount in lovelaces to send to each recipient (e.g., `1000000`)

**Example:**
```sh
./transfer.sh alice bob,charlie,mark 1000000
```

This will send 1,000,000 lovelaces from Alice's wallet to Bob, Charlie, and Mark individually.

## Scheduled tasks

This example demonstrates how to schedule recurring transactions using cron expressions.

**Location:** `examples/scheduled-tasks/`

**Usage:**
```sh
./transfer.sh <sender_wallet> <receiver_wallet> <lovelace_amount> <cron_string>
```

**Arguments:**
- `sender_wallet`: Name of the wallet sending the funds (e.g., `alice`)
- `receiver_wallet`: Name of the recipient wallet (e.g., `bob`)
- `lovelace_amount`: Amount in lovelaces to send (e.g., `1000000`)
- `cron_string`: Cron schedule expression in the format `'minute hour day month weekday'`

**Example:**
```sh
./transfer.sh alice bob 1000000 '0 */2 * * *'
```

This will schedule a transfer of 1,000,000 lovelaces from Alice to Bob every 2 hours.

## Complex transaction

This example shows how to interact with a protocol that requires several parameters, specifically creating a ship in [Asteria](https://asteria.txpipe.io).

**Location:** `examples/complex-transaction/`

**Usage:**
```sh
./create-ship.sh <player_wallet> <pos_x> <pos_y>
```

**Arguments:**
- `player_wallet`: Name of the player's wallet (e.g., `alice`)
- `pos_x`: X coordinate for the ship position (integer)
- `pos_y`: Y coordinate for the ship position (integer)

**Example:**
```sh
./create-ship.sh alice 25 25
```

This will create a new ship for Alice at coordinates (25, 25) in [Asteria](https://asteria.txpipe.io).

> Note: you need to use a provider with the Cardano preview testnet in order to submit this transaction

Commit message:

feat: introduce `wallet utxos` command (#47)

README.md, after:

# C-Shell

A Cardano wallet built for developers and power users.

# Installation

## From Source

You'll need to have the following components already available in your system.

- [Rust toolchain](https://www.rust-lang.org/learn/get-started)

The following instructions show how to build and install _CShell_ from source code.

Use `git` to clone CShell source-code from our Github repository:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/txpipe/cshell.git
```

Use `cargo` to compile and install the generated binary for your user profile:

```sh
cargo install --all-features --path .
```

Once you completed the above steps, you should be able to call CShell directly from the command line:

```sh
cshell --help
```

## Binary Releases 

(Coming soon)

_CShell_ can be run as a standalone executable. The [Github
release](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/) page includes the
binaries for different OS and architectures. It's a self-contained, single-file
binary that can be downloaded directly.

For simplicity, we also provide diferent installers for supported platform to
automate the installation process. Regardless of the installer, the outcome
should be the same, choose the one that fits your needs.

### Install via shell script

You can run the following command line script to install CShell on supported systems (Mac / Linux)

```sh
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -LsSf https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-installer.sh | sh
```

### Install via powershell script

You can use Powershell to install CShell on Windows systems.

```sh
powershell -c "irm https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-installer.ps1 | iex"
```

### Install via Homebrew

You can use Homebrew to install the latest version of CShell in supported
systems (Mac / Linux)

```sh
brew install txpipe/tap/cshell
```

## Download Binaries

|  File  | Platform |
|--------|----------|
| [cshell-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.xz](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-aarch64-apple-darwin.tar.xz) | Apple Silicon macOS |
| [cshell-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.xz](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-x86_64-apple-darwin.tar.xz) | Intel macOS |
| [cshell-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-x86_64-pc-windows-msvc.zip) | x64 Windows |
| [cshell-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-x86_64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) | x64 Linux |
| [cshell-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz](https://github.com/txpipe/cshell/releases/latest/download/cshell-aarch64-unknown-linux-gnu.tar.xz) | ARM64 Linux |


# Usage

To run CShell you need, at least, 1 provider and 1 wallet.

To add a wallet, you can do the following:


```sh
cargo run -- wallet create
```

This will prompt you for a a name and a password. Keep in mind that losing the
password means loosing the private key, because it is encrypted.

To add a provider, you can do something similar:

```sh
cargo run -- provider create
```

This will prompt you for a name, a kind (only UTxORPC supported), whether it is for mainnet or testnet, a URL and the possibility to add headers.

> If you have a [Demeter](https://demeter.run) port you would have to set the URL as `https://{host}` and on put `dmtr-api-key:YOUR_API_KEY` on the headers.

To inspect the current wallet's UTxOs in JSON format, run:

```sh
cargo run -- wallet utxos
```

Use `--output-format` to override the default JSON response if you prefer a table view instead.

# Examples

In the `examples` folder you can find scripts demonstrating advanced capabilities.

## Batch transactions

This example shows how to send transactions to multiple recipients in a batch.

**Location:** `examples/batch-transactions/`

**Usage:**
```sh
./transfer.sh <sender_wallet> <receiver_wallets_list> <lovelace_amount>
```

**Arguments:**
- `sender_wallet`: Name of the wallet sending the funds (e.g., `alice`)
- `receiver_wallets_list`: Comma-separated list of recipient wallet names (e.g., `bob,charlie,mark`)
- `lovelace_amount`: Amount in lovelaces to send to each recipient (e.g., `1000000`)

**Example:**
```sh
./transfer.sh alice bob,charlie,mark 1000000
```

This will send 1,000,000 lovelaces from Alice's wallet to Bob, Charlie, and Mark individually.

## Scheduled tasks

This example demonstrates how to schedule recurring transactions using cron expressions.

**Location:** `examples/scheduled-tasks/`

**Usage:**
```sh
./transfer.sh <sender_wallet> <receiver_wallet> <lovelace_amount> <cron_string>
```

**Arguments:**
- `sender_wallet`: Name of the wallet sending the funds (e.g., `alice`)
- `receiver_wallet`: Name of the recipient wallet (e.g., `bob`)
- `lovelace_amount`: Amount in lovelaces to send (e.g., `1000000`)
- `cron_string`: Cron schedule expression in the format `'minute hour day month weekday'`

**Example:**
```sh
./transfer.sh alice bob 1000000 '0 */2 * * *'
```

This will schedule a transfer of 1,000,000 lovelaces from Alice to Bob every 2 hours.

## Complex transaction

This example shows how to interact with a protocol that requires several parameters, specifically creating a ship in [Asteria](https://asteria.txpipe.io).

**Location:** `examples/complex-transaction/`

**Usage:**
```sh
./create-ship.sh <player_wallet> <pos_x> <pos_y>
```

**Arguments:**
- `player_wallet`: Name of the player's wallet (e.g., `alice`)
- `pos_x`: X coordinate for the ship position (integer)
- `pos_y`: Y coordinate for the ship position (integer)

**Example:**
```sh
./create-ship.sh alice 25 25
```

This will create a new ship for Alice at coordinates (25, 25) in [Asteria](https://asteria.txpipe.io).

> Note: you need to use a provider with the Cardano preview testnet in order to submit this transaction
